(1.What do you understand By Database) 
-->A database is an organized collection of structured information or data, typically stored electronically in a 
computer system. It is managed by a Database Management System (DBMS), which provides efficient data retrieval,
insertion, updating, and deletion while ensuring data integrity, security, and availability. Databases support
querying through languages like SQL and are designed to handle large volumes of data with features for backup,
recovery, and concurrent access by multiple users.

(2.What is Normalization?)
-->Normalization is a database design process used to organize data to minimize redundancy and improve data integrity.
It involves dividing a database into tables and establishing relationships between them according to rules designed
to safeguard the data and make the database more efficient. The primary goals of normalization are to eliminate
redundant data (for example, storing the same data in more than one table) and ensure data dependencies make sense
(only storing related data in a table).
(1)First Normal Form (1NF): Ensures that the table has only atomic (indivisible) values and each column contains unique values.
(2)Second Normal Form (2NF): Achieved when the table is in 1NF and all non-key attributes are fully functionally dependent on the primary key.
(3)Third Normal Form (3NF): Achieved when the table is in 2NF and all the attributes are only dependent on the primary key, not on other non-key attributes.
Higher normal forms like Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF) and Fourth Normal Form (4NF) address more complex scenarios.

(3.What is Difference between DBMS and RDBMS?) 
-->The difference between DBMS and RDBMS:
1.Storage:
DBMS: Files (flexible but less organized)
RDBMS: Tables (structured and organized)
2.Relationships:
DBMS: Limited support, data connections can be complex
RDBMS: Enforced relationships using keys (minimizes data duplication)
3.Access:
DBMS: File system methods (not standardized)
RDBMS: SQL (powerful and standardized query language)
4.Normalization:
DBMS: Not typically used (can lead to data redundancy)
RDBMS: Used to organize tables and reduce redundancy
5.Security & Scalability:
DBMS: Lower security features, limited for large datasets
RDBMS: Better security and more scalable for bigger databases
(5.What do you understand By Data Redundancy?) 
-->Data redundancy refers to the situation where the same piece of information is stored in multiple locations 
within a database or across different systems. It can be intentional for backup purposes or arise unintentionally
due to inefficiencies.
Causes:
->Intentional: Replication for backups, disaster recovery, or improved performance across 
geographically distributed systems.
->Unintentional: Data gets copied or duplicated due to manual errors, siloed systems, 
or poorly designed applications.

(6.What is DDL Interpreter?) 
-->A DDL interpreter is a component within a Database Management System (DBMS)responsible for processing Data 
Definition Language (DDL) statements. 
->Processes DDL Statements: DDL statements are instructions used to define the structure of a database, such as
creating tables, views, indexes, and users. The DDL interpreter reads and analyzes these statements.
->Generates Metadata: Based on the DDL statements, the interpreter creates metadata, which is essentially "data about data".
This metadata describes the database schema, including table definitions, column data types,constraints, and user permissions.
->Stores Metadata: The generated metadata is typically stored in a system catalog, a special database object
that holds information about the structure and organization of the main user database.

(7.What is DML Compiler in SQL?) 
-->DML statements in SQL are used to manipulate data within the database.Common DML statements include SELECT,
INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE. These statements are processed by the SQL query processor or engine of the database
system.
Here's a brief overview of how DML statements are typically processed:
Parsing: When a DML statement is submitted to the database, the SQL parser first analyzes the syntax of the 
statement to ensure it follows the rules of the SQL language.
Semantic Analysis: After parsing, the SQL engine performs semantic analysis to check the validity of the statement,
including checking the existence of tables and columns referenced in the query and verifying the user's permissions 
to perform the requested operation.
Query Optimization: Once the statement is parsed and validated, the SQL engine performs query optimization to 
generate an efficient execution plan for retrieving or modifying the data. This may involve selecting appropriate 
indexes, join algorithms, and access paths to minimize resource usage and improve performance.

(8.What is SQL Key Constraints writing an Example of SQL Key Constraints.)
-->SQL key constraints are rules enforced on data columns in a table to ensure the integrity and consistency of the data.
==>There are several types of key constraints, including:
1.Primary Key: Ensures that a column (or a set of columns) has unique values and that no NULL values are allowed.
Each table can have only one primary key.
2.Foreign Key: Ensures that the values in a column (or a set of columns) match values in another table's primary key column(s),
establishing a relationship between the tables.
3.Unique Key: Ensures that all values in a column (or a set of columns) are unique.
4.Not Null: Ensures that a column cannot have NULL values.
Exmple>>
CREATE TABLE Users (
    UserID INT PRIMARY KEY,  -- Primary key constraint
    Username VARCHAR(50) UNIQUE,  -- Unique key constraint
    Email VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL  -- Not null constraint
);
CREATE TABLE Orders (
    OrderID INT PRIMARY KEY,  -- Primary key constraint
    OrderDate DATE NOT NULL,  -- Not null constraint
    UserID INT,  -- Foreign key column
    FOREIGN KEY (UserID) REFERENCES Users(UserID)  -- Foreign key constraint
);
INSERT INTO Users (UserID, Username, Email) VALUES (1, 'john_doe', 'john.doe@example.com');
INSERT INTO Users (UserID, Username, Email) VALUES (2, 'jane_smith', 'jane.smith@example.com');
INSERT INTO Orders (OrderID, OrderDate, UserID) VALUES (1, '2023-06-01', 1);
INSERT INTO Orders (OrderID, OrderDate, UserID) VALUES (2, '2023-06-02', 2);

(9.What is save Point? How to create a save Point write a Query?)
-->A savepoint in SQL is a point within a transaction that you can roll back to without affecting the rest of the
transaction. Savepoints are useful for partially undoing changes within a transaction and are especially helpful
in complex transactions where you want to control which parts of the transaction to undo if an error occurs.
-- Start a new transaction
BEGIN TRANSACTION;
QUERY
INSERT INTO Users (UserID, Username, Email) VALUES (3, 'alice_brown', 'alice.brown@example.com');
SAVEPOINT Savepoint1;
INSERT INTO Users (UserID, Username, Email) VALUES (4, 'bob_white', 'bob.white@example.com');
ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT Savepoint1;
INSERT INTO Users (UserID, Username, Email) VALUES (5, 'charlie_green', 'charlie.green@example.com');
COMMIT;

(10.What is trigger and how to create a Trigger in SQL?) 
-->A trigger in SQL is a special kind of stored procedure that automatically executes when specific events occur 
in the database. These events can be INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE operations on a table or a view. Triggers are used 
to enforce business rules, maintain audit trails, and replicate data, among other uses.
Creating a Trigger
To create a trigger, you use the CREATE TRIGGER statement, specifying the event that will cause the trigger to
fire and the actions that the trigger should perform.

Here’s a step-by-step guide on how to create a trigger:
Specify the Trigger Name: Choose a name for your trigger.
Specify the Table: Identify the table on which the trigger will be applied.
Specify the Event: Define the event that will fire the trigger (INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE).
Define the Timing: Specify whether the trigger should fire BEFORE or AFTER the event.
Write the Trigger Action: Define the SQL statements to be executed when the trigger fires.




